Hi, I'm Mark Kawano,
Apple's User Experience Evangelist.
I spent many years as
a designer at Apple,
and I've also helped thousands of
developers improve the design and user
experience of their iPhone and iPad apps.
From this experience,
I've put together a list of tips
that address some of the most
common design issues I've seen.
The tips I go through today will
help make your app more useful,
intuitive, and beautiful,
and this should be your goal.
If you can design your app to
have these three qualities,
it will be more memorable
and more successful.
More people will purchase
or download your app,
talk about it to their
friends and family,
and they'll be more likely to give
it a good review on the App Store.
It doesn't matter what type
of developer you are or what
type of app you're building.
The goal should be useful, intuitive,
and beautiful.
Tips are split into
seven different sections:
focus, touch, animation, sound, language,
typography, and graphics.
And throughout,
I'm going to be showing examples of many
of the apps that we designed at Apple,
and I'll also show examples of
apps that other developers built.
So let's get started with focus.
First,
I want to talk about focusing your app.
Whatever type of app you're building,
whether it's for productivity,
media consumption, communication,
or entertainment,
your app should provide a
useful and elegant solution.
And the feature set should be
focused on whatever problems
your app helps to solve.
The reason people love using the
iPhone and iPad isn't because they
come with every feature in the world.
People love these devices because they
solve a targeted set of problems in the
most innovative and elegant way possible.
Similarly,
your app should be highly focused
on just the tasks that are
most important for your users.
In the iOS HIG,
we describe a tool called the
Application Definition Statement.
Essentially,
the Application Definition Statement
is the answer to two questions:
What does the app do?
And who will use it?
And it should be clear and concise.
So let's take a look at an example:
an alarm clock for business travelers.
Nice and simple.
And immediately,
you get a mental picture of
what the app might look like
and what features it will have.
You probably want a recurring
alarm so the user doesn't
have to set it every day.
And lullabies might be a nice way
to help some users go to sleep.
GPS-based weather, moon phases,
or ocean tide charts would be cool.
And maybe farm animal sounds as
the buzzer might be kind of funny.
But after you've listed out
your potential features,
continually refer back to your
application definition statement.
An alarm clock for business travelers.
As an exercise,
let's take a look at what happens
when you change just a single word.
Instead of an alarm clock,
now you have a weather clock.
And right away,
a different mental picture comes to
mind with a different set of features.
Or what if you stick with an
alarm clock but change the user?
So instead of an alarm clock
for business travelers,
you have an alarm clock for children.
Again,
you get a completely different picture
of what the app might look like and
what features would be appropriate.
But let's stick with
our original statement,
an alarm clock for business travelers.
When we look at the original feature set,
it's clear that many items
don't directly relate to our
application definition statement.
Weather information is interesting,
but there are several weather apps that
have some really beautiful interfaces
that would be hard to compete with.
And animal sounds and
lullabies might be cute,
but they probably aren't
appropriate for most business users.
Use your app definition statement
to refine your feature set to
just the most important tasks
for the users you've identified.
If you try to solve too many problems,
people will get confused about
what the app is for and it will be
extremely difficult to come up with
innovative ways to solve each problem.
By focusing on just the
right set of features,
you can ensure that each and every one
of them is designed and built in the
most intuitive and elegant way possible.
Now I want to talk about
focusing your user interface.
Your UI should only contain the options
that matter most for any given task.
As you design each screen,
you should ask yourself,
"What's important now?" Examine every
element and question whether it's really
necessary for the user's primary task.
In the Photos app, each screen has a
clearly defined purpose:
choosing an album, or choosing a photo,
or viewing a photo.
And there can be controls
for other options,
but when you look at each screen,
it should be very clear
what the primary task is.
Once you've identified what's important,
you can showcase the content
that users care about most.
Look how the photo fills
the entire screen here.
Even the controls that do appear
are placed on a translucent bar,
and after a slight delay,
the controls fade away.
Here's the Maps app.
There's one bar at the
top and one at the bottom,
but the map dominates the screen.
And here's iBooks.
The entire screen is a book page.
Just like the Photos app,
the controls fade out over time
so the user can concentrate on the
content that they care about most.
Here's photos on the iPad.
Use the bigger screen to make the
content look that much better.
The fact that the content fills the
entire screen makes the iPad one
of the best ways to view photos.
And here's Maps on the iPad.
Notice that there aren't more
controls all over the screen.
Instead,
the bigger map gives you more awareness
of the places you want to explore.
And this is Pages from our iWorks suite.
This is an app with many features,
but the document fills almost
the entire screen with just a
single command bar at the top.
This really allows you to
focus on whatever flyer,
report,
or brochure you might be working on.
The features that aren't as important
should be placed on a different screen.
In Photos, we put all of the sharing
options in an action sheet.
If we had tried to put each of these
features on the previous screen as
additional icons of the command bar,
you would see a lot less of the photo.
And also the tab targets would
be really small and you wouldn't
get the nice clear text labels.
So look how much nicer that is with
just the photo filling the screen.
And on the iPad,
you can place additional options
in popovers rather than taking
the user to a different screen.
Many people think that because
the iPad is much bigger,
all the options will fit in
bars along the top and bottom
and just be one tap away.
But if you do this,
you'll create an app that's
complicated and confusing.
Users won't be able to find
commands that they care about
most and efficiency will be lost.
In photos for the iPad,
we placed all the sharing
options in a single popover.
And popovers are nice
because they're contextual.
You can see the commands while continuing
to view the content that they apply to.
And in Pages on the iPad,
we've placed a lot of
functionality in popovers.
When you tap on an item in the document,
the popover updates to provide
just the options that make
sense for the selected item.
In iBooks, there are display and typeface
options and popovers so the book
page can fill the entire screen.
So that was focus.
Remember, focus your app.
Create an application definition
statement so you can spend your
time on a targeted set of features.
And focus your UI.
Don't overcrowd the screen and
expose every feature at once.
Instead,
showcase the content that people care
about most and place secondary options
in popovers or a separate screen.
When you design for clarity rather
than the minimum number of taps,
your users will be much more efficient at
whatever task they're trying to complete.
So the next topic is touch.
Optimizing your UI for the touchscreen
is one of the biggest shifts
you'll have to make if you've been
designing for the web or desktop
where there's a keyboard and mouse.
It's really important that you design
controls with a finger in mind.
Having buttons or other controls
that are too small is one of the most
common problems I see in iOS apps.
Imagine trying to use an elevator
that was designed to be used
with a mouse instead of a finger.
The buttons would be very
small and close together,
and when you tried to tap one,
you'd probably select all
the floors above and below
the one you wanted to go to.
It sounds ridiculous,
yet so many apps don't provide
controls sized for a finger.
In the iOS HIG,
we recommend tap targets to be
44 by 44 points at a minimum,
and the built-in calculator app
is a great reference to follow.
But remember,
not all apps are used the same
way or by the same people,
so it's important to consider the usage.
This is the Nike+ GPS app for runners,
and it connects to a pedometer in
Nike+ sneakers and tracks distance,
time, and location.
It even gives you audio feedback
when you listen to your iPod
music to encourage you as you run.
And notice how they made the pause
button nice and big so it's easy
to tap when you're on the go.
And this is an app that plays songs
for kids called Kids Song Machine.
Since it's targeted at
very young children,
the exit and lyrics
buttons are nice and big.
On a touchscreen,
it's also important to provide a good
amount of space between controls.
When you put controls
right next to each other,
you increase the chance that your users
will accidentally tap the wrong item.
Here's Cut the Rope.
It's one of the most popular
games on the App Store,
and it's incredibly addictive
and consistently ranked in
the top most paid-for apps.
And Cut the Rope does a great job spacing
the different buttons in the pause menu.
Usually, you've paused a game because you
were distracted by something.
Providing the extra space ensures
that you won't accidentally quit
the game and lose any progress that
you may have made on that level.
And here's Cut the Rope for the iPad.
All the same rules about
spacing and sizing still apply.
The screen may be much larger,
but remember that your
fingertip is the same size.
Users also expect immediate
feedback when using a touchscreen.
So take a look at the passcode screen.
Every button has visible tap states
and other parts of the UI update.
When waiting outside an elevator,
you've most likely interacted
with a button that doesn't
provide good feedback.
So you press the button
and nothing happens.
So you press it again and again.
Sometimes you keep holding the button
down until the elevator arrives.
That's a bad user experience.
You don't want your users waiting and
wondering as they interact with your app.
Remember,
the iPhone and iPad's touchscreen
doesn't know where your finger is.
Unlike a computer that always
knows where the cursor is,
your app won't be able to provide
rollover states or tooltips to indicate
when an element is interactive.
Designing buttons with shine, texture,
and depth will make
controls look tappable.
Let's take a closer look
at the Calculator app.
The slight gradient and border treatment
on each button makes them look raised.
And the area displaying the numbers,
which isn't interactive, appears flat.
And notice the way our switch
controls look like an actual switch.
Right away,
users know how to interact with the
screen after they turn on the device.
Another good way to make controls
look tappable is by following
standard iOS conventions.
So this is the iTunes app.
And throughout iOS,
we use rounded corners to
indicate interactive elements.
And chevrons are another
convention to let users know they
can tap on an item in a list.
By using these conventions,
you're often able to reduce the
amount of visual noise in the UI,
and users will recognize these
subtle indicators to understand
which items are interactive.
If you're designing an immersive game or
you just have a UI that's highly themed,
make sure the interactive elements
stand out from the background.
Here's Nova.
It's a first-person shooter game
with controls surrounding the screen.
And they've got everything
you need to look around,
steer, jump, shoot, change guns,
throw grenades, and freeze aliens.
And notice how they use a translucent
overlay to separate the controls from the
background art so you know where to tap.
So those are some great tips for touch.
Make sure your buttons are properly
sized and spaced on how your app is used.
And provide immediate feedback
so the user isn't left wondering
if a gesture was recognized.
Give your controls a tactile look and
make sure the interactive elements
stand out from the background.
The next topic is animation.
Using animation in your app makes
it more realistic and engaging.
And when done well,
animation can provide useful feedback
to help inform and educate your users.
When a user creates a new
note in our Notes app,
we use animation to curl back
the page like a real notepad.
And when a user deletes a note,
the trash lid opens up and the
page slides into the trash bin.
Not only does this add a
heightened sense of realism,
but it also helps smooth the
transition from one view to another.
In the real world,
objects don't just appear and disappear,
and if you see this in an app,
it can be very confusing.
Animation is also a great way to
acknowledge a user's action and assure
them that something is happening.
In the iTunes app,
we use animation to let a user know
when a song preview is being downloaded,
and if they buy a song,
an animation lets them know
where to find their purchases
without forcing them to leave the
screen or read a modal dialogue.
So let's take a look.
You can see them previewing,
and purchasing, and then downloading.
Unless you're building a game,
it's important that your
animation is not gratuitous.
The velocity and position of
the animation should directly
match the user's gesture.
In Keynote, when a user moves a
slide in the Navigator,
we use animation to let
them know they've got it.
And when they drop it,
the other slides ripple
away from that area.
And because the animation
follows actual physics,
it makes the experience
feel very realistic.
And in iBooks,
as your finger slides across the screen,
the page curls back and directly
tracks the user's movement.
Matching the user's gestures
really makes you feel like you're
turning a real page in a book.
Be realistic.
If your animation isn't realistic,
it can be distracting
and confuse your users.
If you flip an item to show settings
like we do in the Weathers app,
users will associate the
widget with a physical card.
They will assume that there's
only two sides to the card,
and to view the original content,
the card must be flipped back over.
And in the Photos app,
the user can pinch a pile of photos
to preview what's inside an album.
And the actual photos
expand out while you pinch.
It feels like you're really picking
them up and fanning them out on a table.
You don't see the same photo twice
because that wouldn't be realistic.
So to summarize animation:
use animation to smooth transitions
and give users feedback about
what's going on in your app.
And don't be gratuitous.
The animation should match the
user's gesture as much as possible.
And unless your app's
a game or game-like,
be realistic.
Animation, when done well,
can make your app much easier to
use and really bring things to life.
So now I'd like to talk about sound.
It's really a shame that so many
developers forget to consider
sound when developing their app.
Like animation,
sound can add a heightened sense
of realism to your app and create
a much more memorable experience.
A great audio cue can help
your brain better associate
an action with its result.
Those are some familiar sounds
to anybody who's used an iPhone.
You want to be careful not to
rely on sound as your only form
of feedback because the user
may have muted their device.
But when you do utilize
sounds to communicate status,
you're often able to reduce
the visual noise in your UI.
In the real world,
you hear sounds all the time when
interacting with physical objects.
And when you add sounds to
interactive objects in your UI,
they feel more realistic.
For example, when a user changes a value
in their standard picker UI,
they hear a click at each setting.
This subtle but realistic sound
reinforces the visual concept that
a user is spinning an actual wheel.
And in the Camera app,
we play a traditional shutter
sound when a user snaps a picture.
Not only does this make the
action feel more familiar,
but it provides useful feedback
that a picture was taken and
it's being saved to the device.
If you're building a game,
sound is an absolute must.
Playing a game without sound is like
watching a movie without a soundtrack.
You can do it, but you won't be able to
build drama and tap into the
user's emotions the same way.
So this is Angry Birds.
It's one of the most
popular games on iOS,
and it's been consistently in the
first spot of all paid apps on the
US App Store for a long time now.
And those of you who have
played Angry Birds know how
powerful sound design can be.
The background music is catchy,
but it's really the sound effects that
tease and challenge you to conquer levels
and seek revenge on the green pigs.
So that was Sound.
Don't forget about Sound.
Think about how it can be used to provide
feedback and status to your users.
And if it makes sense,
use Sound to reinforce
interactive concepts.
It's an extremely efficient
way to make your app stand out
and be remembered by users.
Having clear language is one of
the easiest things you can do
to make your app more usable.
Yet so many developers gloss
over this area just like sound.
Remember, most users aren't as familiar
with your app's features or the
technologies that support them.
When using an app that has clear,
natural language,
you don't even think about the text.
But when you use an app with
ambiguous or overly technical wording,
the first thing that you often say is,
"This app is too complicated."
An easy tip to remember is to label
buttons by their resulting action.
When you get a text message,
the buttons in the alert are
clearly labeled "Close" and
"View." There's no ambiguity about
what either of these buttons do,
even if you don't read any of
the other text in the alert.
If you just label buttons "OK" and
"Cancel" or "Yes" and "No," users will
always have to read the entire text,
and it will be much easier for them to
accidentally select the wrong option.
Here's the alert confirmation
sheet for deleting a photo.
Because the buttons are clearly labeled,
the user doesn't need any
extra text in the sheet.
Just delete photo and cancel.
Nice and clear.
It's also important that the
navigation bars at the top of
the screen are clearly labeled.
And this is especially helpful if
your app has a deep hierarchy or many
screens that the user might navigate to.
Avoid placing your logo
at the top of every view.
This is a common mistake a lot of
developers coming from the web make.
Users won't be able to clearly
identify the screen they're on
and it will get very confusing
as the user navigates around.
There are also a lot
of apps with two bars,
one for the logo and a second
for the nav bar and back button.
This not only limits the amount
of content that can be displayed,
but it also makes it harder to
navigate in and out of levels.
Remember,
users launch the app from your icon.
They didn't stumble upon the screen
from a search engine or other web link.
And the best branding for your
app is to create an experience
that's great for your users.
So label your nav bars.
It's also important to label
back buttons by the name of
the screen that they go to.
Remember,
this is a mobile device and a user
might have received a phone call
or been distracted by something
else after getting to this screen.
In these scenarios,
it's really nice to have a visual
cue of where the user came from.
The fact that it's a left-pointed
button in the upper left corner
already indicates to users
that it'll take them back,
so just labeling it with the
word "back" isn't that helpful.
And you want to be clear and
concise with your labels.
It doesn't matter if the full
name of the previous screen
doesn't fit in the back arrow.
You just need to give users some sort of
clue of where that button will take them.
This is a screen from our iPod app.
Look how we just used the word "more" in
the tab bar and "edit" in the nav bar.
We use these labels in
several of our built-in apps.
There's no need to add extra
words and say "more items" or
"edit display view." Because these
controls are in a consistent,
logical place, we're able to have nice,
short labels that tell the
user all they need to know.
Most users care about getting stuff done.
They aren't as interested in what
technology is used in your app.
So make your language
understandable to your target users.
Here in our Settings app,
you can turn Airplane Mode on and off.
And this could have easily
been labeled something like
Disable Cellular Baseband Radio.
But most users wouldn't
know what that meant.
And also in Settings,
we have Wi-Fi networks.
We don't say anything such as 802.11 N,
G, B, or A, or SSID.
Just Wi-Fi networks,
something that all users can understand.
In the Maps app,
we say "drop pin," not "add
new GPS indicator to map."
Just "drop pin," because that's
what the interface is doing,
and that's what will
make sense for users.
And throughout iOS,
we abstract the underlying file system.
We talk about sharing photos or
playing songs or watching videos.
And when we do talk about
files in our Numbers app,
we simply refer to them as
what they are-- spreadsheets.
Nowhere will a user see a
command like new numbers file or
something labeled untitled.xls,
just spreadsheets or the
title of the spreadsheet.
Remember that the goal is to use
terms that make sense to users.
So that was language.
Make sure you have helpful labels
in your buttons and other controls.
And keep it simple and make
the text clear and concise.
Use language that your
users will understand.
These are some simple rules that will
go a long way towards making your app
easier to understand and to navigate.
So now onto typography.
Once your language is clear,
you need to make sure that the
actual text is legible and beautiful.
So here we have our built-in mail app.
When you're browsing through
messages in your inbox,
the thing that you care about
most is who the message is from.
So the sender is listed in big,
bold text.
And as you scroll through messages,
the sender's name
remains clearly legible.
The message's subject is
right below the sender's name.
And since this information is important,
it doesn't have the same visual weight.
However, it is more important
than the message preview,
which is a lighter gray text.
If the subject and message
preview were the same color,
it would be really hard to tell that
there are different bits of information.
But by visually distinguishing them,
there's no need for an extra
text label on each line,
such as subject: or message preview:.
Another alternative would have been
to make the message preview a smaller
font than the subject or a different
typeface or color altogether.
If we did this, it would be visually busy
and too hard to read.
When there are too many different
typefaces or font sizes in a small area,
the most important text won't stand out.
All this text is left aligned so
as the user browses their messages,
they can keep their eye in one area and
quickly find what they're looking for.
Proper alignment really helps
make the text easier to read.
When you don't have items aligned,
the user is forced to read every
word on the page and their eye will
have to zigzag across the screen.
Even though this is a standard list view,
lots of thought and consideration
went into the design.
When you design your list views and
other screens with lots of data,
spend the time to make sure the
information is organized in a way that
makes sense and the text is easy to read.
So while the Mail app gives
you a good reference point
for what we consider legible,
you must adapt type sizes
for how your app is used.
In the Maps app,
where we display turn-by-turn directions,
the fonts are much bigger because
we assume the user is on the go.
And in the Stocks app,
the user might be checking their
portfolio under a table in a
meeting or at a restaurant,
so you want to make the
text very easy to read.
If the user has to scroll
to see additional items,
that's fine.
Fitting all the content in one
screen really isn't important.
Scrolling is one of the most
intuitive gestures in iOS,
and users won't mind scrolling
to see additional items.
However, they'll get quickly frustrated
if they have to squint to read
something or physically bring
the device closer to their face.
If your app is highly themed,
the typeface should
match the rest of the UI.
In Notes, we use a handwriting font since
the app looks like a real notepad.
And using the default Helvetica and
a highly immersive game like Cut the
Rope wouldn't feel as playful as the
custom font that they've embedded.
But if you saw either of
these fonts in the Mail app,
they would feel really out of place.
If you do use a custom typeface,
just make sure that all the
text remains very legible.
So those were a few tips to help you
improve the typography in your app.
Make sure the text is easy to
read in all usage scenarios.
And make it appropriate.
Good typography and information
design often goes unnoticed,
but it really makes a huge difference
in the overall beauty of an app.
So remember, screen densities vary.
You need to test for legibility
on every device your app supports.
The iOS simulator isn't a good
enough tool to let you know
whether your text is legible.
So last but not least, we have graphics.
One of the best ways to wow your
users is to build rich graphics that
give a sense of realism to your app.
Take advantage of the fact that
when a user launches your app,
the iPad or iPhone can turn
into whatever you want it to be.
And when you mimic high-end,
expensive materials,
the perceived value of
your app will go up.
Here we see the built-in Voice Memos app.
It's a beautiful studio microphone where
every detail has been paid attention to,
even the light source
and the shadow behind it.
And underneath,
there's even a realistic level meter
and Chrome buttons to control it.
And you can tap on the
microphone just to test it.
Lots of details were
paid attention to here.
This is the Compass app.
Here you can see some polished
wood and some brass fixtures.
So when you hold it in your hand,
it feels like a real compass as you
move around in different directions.
So here's a metronome app
from Steinway and Sons.
And you can use it to keep track
of the rhythm and tempo when
you're practicing an instrument.
Because they're using really
expensive looking wood and the bottom
area looks like a precise tool,
it would feel right at home on top
of one of their fancy grand pianos.
So this is Hipstamatic.
It's an app that comes with
all sorts of filters to give
your photos a vintage look.
And their app looks like a real toy
film camera made out of plastic.
On the back, it's even got a film slot,
a flash switch,
and a viewfinder to compose your shot.
Every pixel was paid attention to here.
This is Notes on the iPad.
Just like the iPhone,
it looks like a real notepad.
But in landscape view,
it's sitting on top of a nice
executive leather binder.
If there was just a standard
list view on the left side,
the whole association with a real
world object would be diminished.
When you model your app after an object,
you need to go the full distance
and make sure every pixel on
the screen feels authentic.
And this is Mathboard,
an app that mimics a classroom chalkboard
to help students learn basic arithmetic.
They really paid
attention to every detail,
from the different chalk colors
to the wood trim to the eraser.
And they even left some chalk residue
on the slate to make it really feel
like you're in a classroom setting.
And here's a really great
app called DJ that looks like
a real set of turntables.
Right away,
you know how to interact with the app.
The records really spin,
and the fader and level meters are
right where you'd expect them to be.
This app lets DJs feel right
at home mixing music from their
iTunes library right on their iPad.
So not all apps have real-world
objects to get modeled after.
And depending on what
your app is used for,
it's not always appropriate.
Still,
your users will appreciate it if you put
the time into the graphics and layout.
Most of the functionality in
our Weather app could have been
built using standard list views,
but the use of custom graphics
makes it more useful and engaging.
And many people I know add cities
to their iPhone right when they
get it just to see the graphics.
And here's a cookie baking
app from Martha Stewart.
This could have easily been a
list or grid view of cookie names.
Instead, all of the recipes are showcased
as photos on what their design
team calls the cookie runway.
And as you swipe in either direction,
you can see more and more cookies.
And when you tap on one,
it zooms up and you can view the recipe.
They've done a great job making
users want to interact with this app.
If you're utilizing Game Center,
try to integrate the leaderboard
and achievement screens
with the theme of your game.
Astronut is a fun arcade game
where you try to jump from planet
to planet and explore the galaxy.
As you can see,
it's got a futuristic space-age UI.
And since the standard green felt
of Game Center would feel really
out of place inside this app,
they've customized the
leaderboard and achievements
to fit right in in outer space.
And here's Flight Control on the iPad.
This is an Apple Design Award winning
game where you act as an air
traffic controller and try
to land planes on the runway.
They've incorporated the
Game Center achievements with
the rest of the UI and made it
look like a pilot's logbook.
It's absolutely critical that
your app has a beautiful icon.
Your icon gives users the first
impression of your app and right
away they'll judge how much
care and consideration you put
into the overall experience.
On the App Store,
users are much more willing to purchase
and download an app with a better icon
if there are several other similar apps.
Designing an app icon
is a specialized task,
so I recommend hiring a professional
designer if you don't have the
proper experience yourself.
The app icon should give users
a clue of what your app does.
It doesn't need to be literal or
even match the UI of the app itself.
It just needs to relate to the general
functionality of what your app does.
Our YouTube icon looks like
an old wooden television set.
And when you see this icon,
you automatically assume that
it's an app for watching videos.
It doesn't matter that you
watch user-submitted videos
rather than television programs.
What's more important is that
users associate the graphic with
a concept they're familiar with.
The iPod app icon shows
a click wheel iPod,
even though it's really the iPhone
or the iPad that's going to be
the device playing the music.
However,
the graphic is so recognizable that
it immediately clues the user of
what the app's functionality will be,
accessing your iPod library.
Most iPhone and iPad users have
downloaded many apps from the App Store.
To stand out on the springboard,
your icon needs to be
instantly recognizable.
Using bold colors and limiting
the complexity will help make
sure your app stands out,
even if it's placed inside of a
folder where a user has to page
between many different screens.
If you use too many shapes
and try to do too much,
it won't read well at the small size.
Here's the icon for Things.
This is a great task manager app,
and it's also an
Apple Design Award winner.
The big check is clearly visible,
and it's easy to find when swiping
through pages of apps on the device.
The bright blue color
matches their app's branding,
and the concept of a check
references a common to-do list.
Instagram's icon looks
like an old instant camera.
This is another app that lets users apply
vintage film effects to their photos.
But this app lets you instantly
share the photos with your friends.
And their icon uses basic
shapes and has distinct colors,
but doesn't look overly complex,
even though when you look at it closely,
there's quite a bit of detail inside.
Cosmos Spin is a fun and addictive game
where you spin a little character around
a planet eating all kinds of objects.
And their app icon simply
features the main character.
They didn't try to incorporate all
of the really beautiful artwork
you see when you play the game.
If they did,
it would be too busy and wouldn't
read well at the small size.
Instead, it's nice and simple,
and by placing the
character at a slight angle,
it gives a sense of playfulness.
So that was graphics.
Whatever type of app you're building,
whether it's a serious productivity
tool or an immersive game,
your users will appreciate it
if you spend the time and effort
to create engaging graphics.
And when it makes sense,
consider adding physicality and
realism to your app so it makes a
great first and lasting impression.
And have a beautiful app icon.
Not only will more
users download your app,
but they'll probably end
up using it more as well.
So in each of these topics,
I covered a lot of material,
and I want to leave you
with some final thoughts.
Ultimately, your goal should be to
make your app useful,
intuitive, and beautiful.
And hopefully you can use many
of the tips I went over today
to get started with this goal.
I've only touched the surface of
designing for iPhone and iPad,
and there's so much more ground to cover.
The first step for anyone
is to read the iOS HIG.
Finally, it's really important to not
sacrifice quality for anything.
Every part of your app,
from the feature set, to the text labels,
to the app icon, needs to be polished.
And the performance needs to be great.
If your app is confusing or
has features that are buggy,
hold off from releasing it
until these things are fixed.
If you don't address these
issues and instead release
your app before it's ready,
users won't wait for you
to fix them with an update.
They'll simply delete your app.
So that's it.
I've shared many design tips
to help make your iPhone,
or iPad app, really great.
Be sure to go above and beyond
what your customers expect,
and do everything you can
to delight and impress them.
Use these tips to design a product
that you're really proud of,
and that stands out from the crowd.